<!--
A new scriv changelog fragment.

Uncomment the section that is right (remove the HTML comment wrapper).
-->


### Contributors

- @rmcar17 integrated new functions from IQ-TREE in Python, added multithreading support, and wrote the API refererence and quickstart.
- @thomaskf exposed all new functions from IQ-TREE to be available from Python, and worked on multithreading support.
- @GavinHuttley worked on setting up and writing the documentation and associated devtools, ModelFinder, and integration with `cogent3` apps.
- @YapengLang worked on bootstrapping support and extracting model parameters
- @KatherineCaley worked on processing the ModelFinder results.


### ENH

- piqtree now supports multithreading!
- New function `nj_tree` constructs a rapid neighbour-joining tree from a pairwise distance matrix.
- New function `model_finder` finds the best model for a given alignment.
- New function `jc_distances` constructs a pairwise JC distance matrix from an alignment.
- New function `make_model` allows converting an IQ-TREE string representation of a model to a `Model` class.
- API for `random_trees` has changed - new order (`num_trees`, `num_taxa`, `tree_mode`, then `rand_seed`).
- API for `robinson_foulds` has changed - now accepts a Sequence of trees.
- Model parameters are now extracted from IQ-TREE where for now possible.
- `build_tree` now supports ultrafast bootstrapping.
- `Model` creation is now more robust.
- See what can now be done in the [new documentation](https://piqtree.readthedocs.io)!


<!--
### BUG

- A bullet item for the BUG category.

-->

### DOC

- [Documentation](https://piqtree.readthedocs.io) is now on readthedocs!


<!--
### Deprecations

- A bullet item for the Deprecations category.

-->
<!--
### Discontinued

- A bullet item for the Discontinued category.

-->
